# Discussions On Data Collection and Privacy

In this document, I discussed two differing views on the topic of data collection and data privacy. 

## Article 1: The Problem With Too Much Data Privacy          
[Link to article 1](https://time.com/6224484/data-privacy-problem/)

In this article, the author advocates for people to reconcile their perception of data collection. In most people’s minds, data collection is viewed as being harmful, and data privacy is thought of as the necessary precaution needed to protect them from the malicious intent of data gatherers. However, data collection is crucial in many different fields. An example that the author lists is that of facial recognition. Many have advocated for the banning of facial recognition because of its perceived “invasion” of privacy as well as deficiencies in correctly identifying minorities. However, if facial recognition is banned, the technology will never have the ability to improve. Additionally, facial recognition has many important benefits such as identifying criminals and fugitives more easily, and removing the technology will cause more harm to society than good. Data collection is not only important for the development of facial recognition, but it is also crucial for the development of artificial intelligence algorithms. Algorithms need comprehensive data sets in order to become less biased and more accurate, but banning data collection and emphasizing data privacy will hinder or outright stop such developments. Therefore, data collection should not be viewed so negatively, and data privacy should focus on regulation rather than banning data collection. 

In my opinion, the article provides a very good overview of the current perception regarding the topics of data collection and data privacy. I agree with the author’s assertion that data cannot be private. There is a lot of information that is stored in our online browsing and personal data that can be used to advance technology in many different fields. In order for many of the developing technologies to advance to such a stage where they can be freely integrated into our lives, they need to be trained by examining comprehensive data sets that encompass the views of our entire diverse population. If data becomes private and data collection is banned, then our progress would stagnate. 

At the same time, I can understand why some people are afraid of data collection and having their personal data fall into the wrong hands. Therefore, I do believe that data privacy is still a very important concern. I believe that a combination of educating people on what data can be used for and how beneficial such advancements can be, as well as providing transparency with regards to why their data is being collected and what it will be used towards will shift the perception around data collection. More people will see it as an important process that will improve our society and our quality of life. 

## Article 2: After The Abortion Ruling, Digital Privacy Is More Important Than Ever            
[Link to article 2](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2022/07/04/abortion-ruling-digital-privacy-important/)

In this article, the author uses the example of abortion prosecution to warn against the dangers of data collection and the importance of data privacy. In states where abortion is criminalized, law enforcement have been known to use data provided by various websites. These data include abortion related searches on websites such as Google. By accessing such information, law enforcement will know who is potentially considering a abortion and therefore who to prosecute. Because of such dangers surrounding data collection, the author advocates for heightened protection of data privacy. 

While I believe that data collection can be beneficial in developing new technologies, I can also agree with the points that the author makes here. There have been instances where I have also noticed that my search history has been monitored. For example, after I searched for shoes on Google, I noticed that all the ads on an article that I opened afterwards were related to shoes. It is definitely a somewhat scary thought that companies collect all your search data and know exactly what kind of personalized ads to push to you. 

In comparing the two articles, the first article discusses some of the positive benefits that data collection can bring, and thus claims that data collection is a necessary component of technological advancement, while the second article paints a more pessimistic picture of data collection, especially unchecked data collection. I do agree with the points that both authors make, and believe that both make very valid points on this controversial topic. Therefore, data privacy is still ultimately a very important topic of debate. There definitely should be strong regulations around data collection, while at the same time ensuring that the data collected is put to the right use to improve our quality of life. 